Journal.md, before:

# Journal

## Links

- *Installing Typescript*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/#download-links
- *The docs*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/home.html
- *Using React*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/react-&-webpack.html
- *Create React App with TS*: https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-typescript/
- *Playground*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/index.html#
and the beta v2 playground: https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/play
- *React Cheatsheets*: https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet#reacttypescript-cheatsheets
- *Netlify*: https://app.netlify.com/teams/unfoldingword-hvaaits/sites https://app.netlify.com/teams/mandolyte/sites

## 2020-02-04

Found solution to track two dimensions for a single book (array of booleans). Also added text about what will happen if one wants to optimize the flow.

## 2020-02-03

Need to fix/think about how properly output the book package results so the user can mark some of them as being completed. This impacts how optimization is done.

## 2020-01-31

Today, spent time working on unresolved ".json" files. Had to go back and make quite a few small changes to the RCL. Never did figure this out. It appears that JSON files cannot be exported and exposed in an NPM package.

First cut of app completed... needs cleanup and some bug fixes.


## 2020-01-30

Today I'm back at work on this. I spent time refactoring `book-package-rcl` so that it can be re-used by this app (or by another). It is now published in NPM as version 1.0.0. And prior to that I extracted the word count logic into its own component as well, namely, `uw-word-count` and this is also published on NPM. The RCL used the word count component.

I have decided to write the app in Typescript. I will document my journey here!

1. get the latest version of typescript: `npm install -g typescript`
```
$ npm install -g typescript
C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\tsserver -> C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\typescript\bin\tsserver
C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\tsc -> C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\typescript\bin\tsc
+ typescript@3.7.5
updated 1 package in 11.613s
$ tsc -v
Version 3.7.5
$
```
2. Remove all the artifacts created earlier; and committed; Note per the `adding-typescript` page, I could also have run: 
```
npm uninstall -g create-react-app
```
3. Now run command to start up a TS React (see links):
```
$ yarn create react-app book-package-app --template typescript
```
4. Tested as recommended and it worked fine. Note that it used port 3000
```
We suggest that you begin by typing:

  cd book-package-app
  yarn start

Happy hacking!
Done in 104.98s.
```
5. Put back some of the files I moved for safety.
6. Next added typescript support:
```
yarn add typescript @types/node @types/react @types/react-dom @types/jest
```
7. Noted that `yarn start` will actually launch a Chrome tab to run in... nice.
8. Added to compiler options in `tsconfig.json`: `"downlevelIteration": true`; see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49218765/typescript-and-iterator-type-iterableiteratort-is-not-an-array-type



## 2020-01-09

Today I began documenting the design specification in `DesignSpec.md`

## 2020-01-08

Today I cloned the repo from `unfoldingWord` and ran:
`npx create-react-app book-package-app`. 
The command renamed my `README.md` to `README.old.md`. So I combined them into one and removed the renamed one. I then committed and pushed to initialize the project in Github with *just* the React artifacts.

I then ran `yarn start` and the application started a new tab in my Chrome browser with this in the address bar: `http://localhost:3000/`. Worked fine.

Commit message:

fixed gh pages build issue, see note in Journal.md

Journal.md, after:

# Journal

## Links

- *Installing Typescript*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/#download-links
- *The docs*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/home.html
- *Using React*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/react-&-webpack.html
- *Create React App with TS*: https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-typescript/
- *Playground*: https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/index.html#
and the beta v2 playground: https://www.typescriptlang.org/v2/en/play
- *React Cheatsheets*: https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet#reacttypescript-cheatsheets
- *Netlify*: https://app.netlify.com/teams/unfoldingword-hvaaits/sites https://app.netlify.com/teams/mandolyte/sites

## 2020-02-04

Found solution to track two dimensions for a single book (array of booleans). Also added text about what will happen if one wants to optimize the flow.

*NOTE*: updated `package.json` with:
```
    "deploy": "react-scripts build && gh-pages -d build"
```
This is needed because unless the `build` folder is updated, the commit/push to the `gh-pages` branch will not find anything to udpate and does nothing.

## 2020-02-03

Need to fix/think about how properly output the book package results so the user can mark some of them as being completed. This impacts how optimization is done.

## 2020-01-31

Today, spent time working on unresolved ".json" files. Had to go back and make quite a few small changes to the RCL. Never did figure this out. It appears that JSON files cannot be exported and exposed in an NPM package.

First cut of app completed... needs cleanup and some bug fixes.


## 2020-01-30

Today I'm back at work on this. I spent time refactoring `book-package-rcl` so that it can be re-used by this app (or by another). It is now published in NPM as version 1.0.0. And prior to that I extracted the word count logic into its own component as well, namely, `uw-word-count` and this is also published on NPM. The RCL used the word count component.

I have decided to write the app in Typescript. I will document my journey here!

1. get the latest version of typescript: `npm install -g typescript`
```
$ npm install -g typescript
C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\tsserver -> C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\typescript\bin\tsserver
C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\tsc -> C:\Users\mando\AppData\Roaming\npm\node_modules\typescript\bin\tsc
+ typescript@3.7.5
updated 1 package in 11.613s
$ tsc -v
Version 3.7.5
$
```
2. Remove all the artifacts created earlier; and committed; Note per the `adding-typescript` page, I could also have run: 
```
npm uninstall -g create-react-app
```
3. Now run command to start up a TS React (see links):
```
$ yarn create react-app book-package-app --template typescript
```
4. Tested as recommended and it worked fine. Note that it used port 3000
```
We suggest that you begin by typing:

  cd book-package-app
  yarn start

Happy hacking!
Done in 104.98s.
```
5. Put back some of the files I moved for safety.
6. Next added typescript support:
```
yarn add typescript @types/node @types/react @types/react-dom @types/jest
```
7. Noted that `yarn start` will actually launch a Chrome tab to run in... nice.
8. Added to compiler options in `tsconfig.json`: `"downlevelIteration": true`; see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49218765/typescript-and-iterator-type-iterableiteratort-is-not-an-array-type



## 2020-01-09

Today I began documenting the design specification in `DesignSpec.md`

## 2020-01-08

Today I cloned the repo from `unfoldingWord` and ran:
`npx create-react-app book-package-app`. 
The command renamed my `README.md` to `README.old.md`. So I combined them into one and removed the renamed one. I then committed and pushed to initialize the project in Github with *just* the React artifacts.

I then ran `yarn start` and the application started a new tab in my Chrome browser with this in the address bar: `http://localhost:3000/`. Worked fine.
